Alternative ways to ask questions?
==================================

Hi Class,

Turns out I have a question for you this time!  If people are uncomfortable
asking questions in chat, can you help me come up with something better?  I
have some ideas that might work (like a shared text editor that the whole
class can access anonymously), but I am curious: does zoom provide this
feature in a better way?

Please email me your suggestions and I will gather them into an answer below
(trying to save you from merge conflicts if a lot of people have an opinion
and edit simultaneously).

Also, if you are shy to ask questions here on the wiki, just email me.  With
your permission, I could add the question here with no attribution (it will be
me in the commit logs), or it can just stay in my email if you prefer.


Discussion
----------

Thank you to those who reached out with some suggestions.  I will summarize
some of the ideas below.  Please let me know what you think.  (Email is fine,
or you can add discussion below.)

1. Questions via voice?  As it is now, the chat is the only way to ask a
   question as lectures are taking place.  If people would prefer it, I can
   hold a zoom call at the same time as lecture and respond to any questions I
   hear.  (I would just leave my phone nearby on speaker; the stream would
   still be the main source of audio from me.)
2. Signaling a question?  I can understand being reluctant to just start
   talking during lecture, as it might feel like you are interrupting the
   class.  But I think we could solve this easily as well.  We could just
   reserve a special emote (maybe "ShowOfHands") which indicates you would
   like to ask a question.  If I see it I will pause and take your question.
   (But honestly, don't worry about this just for typing questions in chat --
   just ask and I will respond when I see the opportunity.)
   ShowOfHands: https://www.twitchemotes.com/emotes/303564554
3. More anonymous questions?  As it is, I have no idea who anyone is from
   their twitch handle.  But if you would like an even more anonymous forum,
   we could do something like having a shared text editor (hosted by a third
   party which does not require any registration) open during lecture.  I
   think this might be kind of awkward, but if it really appeals to you let me
   know.

I welcome your thoughts.
