Why this format?
================

Why are we using this strange git setup instead of Blackboard or another
message board or discussion forum?


Answer
======

In the past, I have used `piazza.com`, but now they are charging non-trivial
amounts of money for each class.  I chose git in part out of selfishness (this
is something I am most familiar with), but I also think there are some nice
benefits: while the repository is hosted by a third party (bitbucket in our
case), everyone will also have a local copy and there is no risk of useful
content disappearing.  It might also be nice to use your own local search
tools with regular expression support and such.


Discussion
==========

Use this to ask follow-up questions.  I would suggest annotating each reply
with your name (or nickname) to make the conversation easier to follow, and to
be able to "@" people.  Think IRC if you've ever used that.  Example:


(lynxis): doesn't this scenario produce an increased chance of merge
conflicts, especially down here in the discussion section?

(wes): hopefully the volume isn't too high, and they will be rare!

(Sujoy): Can we form groups for both HW and Project? or Just only project?

(akeysny): Do we commit a txt file with HW to our group repo and add you to that repo?

(wes): I would be delighted if you worked together on homework as well the
projects, but I would prefer everyone turn in their own for that.  To submit
it, you can email me, or send a link to a repository if you would prefer.
Btw, txt is OK, but LaTeX is even better for something like that!

(wes): Also, please add a new file for new questions.  I think it will reduce
the chances of merge conflicts and maybe keep things better organized : )
