Hello Class,

I have been made aware of some accusations against me that are wholly false.
I'd like the individual(s) bringing them against me to have the courage to
address me directly -- I'm actually pretty friendly, and even now I have no
ill will towards anyone.  Regardless, in the following I will address some of
these claims.

1. It has been claimed that I am not prepared for class.  This is wholly
   false.  Before each lecture, I spend hours thinking about what I am going
   to tell you and how to explain it in a way you can understand.  Further, I
   have spent well over 10 years studying cryptography and published numerous
   research papers in top journals the field, so it isn't as if I don't know
   what I'm talking about.
2. It has been claimed that I am not interested in teaching you, or that I
   don't care if you are learning anything.  But I ask repeatedly for feedback
   and for questions.  I monitor the wiki here regularly and respond to all
   questions quickly.  Observe the git logs.  Additionally, I am in my posted
   office hours every week waiting to talk to you.  And yet, no one has even
   expressed a concern with me in spite of having many opportunities and
   venues available to do so.
3. It has been claimed I delete or alter the twitch vods.  This is false.
   They are automatically removed after about two weeks, and as I have
   mentioned, you can download them yourself if you plan to view later on.  If
   you found one that was not the full length, it is probably an artifact of
   the stream momentarily going offline, leaving the vod broken in two.  I'm
   not remotely embarrassed of how our lectures proceed.  I mean...I leave
   them on the internet for literally anyone to view, after all.


I'm truly sorry if you are having a bad time in this class, but deflecting
responsibility will not serve you well.  You must acknowledge your own role in
whatever failures have taken place so far.  Understanding can't just be
uploaded to your brain -- it doesn't matter how much you spend on tuition.
You have to work for it.  Furthermore, this is a graduate class, and I am
teaching it like one.  I don't water down the subject matter; I show you how
things really work.  All I ask is that you be curious, motivated, and ask
questions.

Now it may be the case that you are not prepared for what we are covering.
This is always a possibility, and it is why I frequently ask for your feedback
and questions -- I am more than happy to adjust the pace to accommodate you.
But you have to let me know.  I can't read your mind.

I am actually a tremendous resource for you.  I have a considerable amount of
insight to share with you, and I am interested in doing so.  I invite you now
to engage in more constructive behavior which might prevent this resource from
going to waste.  Please either email me or ask new questions here on the wiki
which include:

1. Specifically what you are failing to understand.
2. What resources (from the reading I have recommended) you have gone through.
   Please be detailed about what you read that did not make sense to you.

Follow these simple steps and we will surely make progress.



Discussion
==========

> From Iara Celeste Diaz---a former student who has drpped this curse of a course.
> 
> HI Professor Skeith - Our group has six people and it is a random sample of the 21 person class.  
> All of us cannot understand a thing you say.  

(wes): then why don't you ask me to clarify?  I find this rather puzzling.

> Please use ZOOM vs Twitch. Twitch is for gamers.

(wes): twitch is actually for lots of things, and it has been very effective
for my other classes.  Can you tell me what zoom provides that twitch does
not?  (Btw, one of the reasons I use twitch instead of zoom is that zoom
requires proprietary software, whereas I can stream to twitch with just
ffmpeg.  I deliver our class from my own computers, which operate -- down to
the motherboard firmware -- on free software alone.)

> At the surface, you look as though you are truly teaching a legit topic.
> But in reality none of us can understand you.We Cannot understand the
> PROJECT as well.  If that requires advanced C++
> this should have beren stated on the prerequisite for your course.

(wes): The project does not require advanced C++ (or C for that matter).  I
gave you a skeleton written in C, and made clear that you can write it in
whatever language you choose; just adopt the same command line interface.  I
didn't think it would be unreasonable to assume that a grad student in CS
knows how to program in some language or other to make a command line utility.
And again, why are you so shy to ask questions?  If after considerable effort
on your part you still feel that nothing makes sense, that *should* alarm you,
and you should talk to me at once so that I can help.

> We showed your Project to an old CS professor from HK and even he couldnt understand your project.

(wes): Did he watch the first 12 or so hours of my lectures?  What is his
background?  Is he a cryptographer?  This is grad school.  I am trying to
teach you some sophisticated things that are likely not common knowledge to
just anyone with a CS degree.  And again I am puzzled: why in the world would
you solicit help from some other professor about this instead of me if you are
feeling lost?  One of your classmates was confused about the project, talked
to me for 15 minutes in office hours, and came away with a good idea of what
to do.

> It also seems peculiar that you assigned this Project two days AFTER (feb 21) the dropping of classes deadline.  
> (Feb 19) This is catfishing.  If students had known about the nature of the project early on,
> they could have had the chance to drop the class rather than being stuck in a class
> where they could not understand the project.  

I'm really sorry it worked out that way.  I pay very little attention to most
administrative deadlines (I try to make sure I've given and graded an exam
before the 'W' deadline, but that's usually it).  It was certainly not
intentional -- I just wanted to have covered enough material in lecture so
that the project might make sense by the time I gave it to you.  I will be
more mindful of those deadlines in the future.

> We also resort to youtubing the topics you assign to class and we haved found better teachers
> that teachn the same topic.  This takes hours of our time.  The videos in Youtibe are clear,
> the teachers are CLEAR!  Why couldnt you be more like them?

(wes): Honestly, solely in terms of educational value in 2021 (set aside the
prestige of a degree, and so on), I see the distinguishing features of going
to a university as follows:

* You can interact personally with experts in disciplines that interest you
  and work with skilled and knowledgeable mentors.
* It places you in a community of motivated people learning together.
* Access to sophisticated laboratories (not usually applicable to CS).

If you have no plans to ask detailed questions to your professors about the
subject (as seems to be the case), you might consider saving yourself the
money and just watching youtube.  Really.  I'm not being sarcastic.  A
motivated, intelligent person can learn a ton on their own from the internet.
You may miss out on the community to some extent, but right now with distance
learning, that benefit is perhaps somewhat diminished anyway.

> It IS not our problem.  It is your job to teach us and make the material digestible for students. 
> Also, this MO of asking us in class whether we understand you or not is not effective.  In a small class, students are afraid 
> to raise hands and say they dont understand for fear of looking dumb.
> Dont use Psi-OPS on us.  Its an ineffective way of asking students to tell u
> whether they understand the material or not.  No one will easily comre forward.
> ANd when we do ask you questions, you gaslight with your answers.
> 
> Why dont you prepare a good lecture once and for all.  Tell us what the function of whatever 
> proofs or equations u are talking about.  Show us the big picture birds eyeview.  Then tell us about 
> the equation youre talking about and how that fits in the big picture.
> Rather than just going on and on solving an equation/proof on twitch that maybe even yourserlf 
> dont understand.
> 
> Please dont underestimate your students.  WE can perceive what IS going on.  
> We know bad professors when we see one.  Because we have had good professors in the past.

I fail to see how my approach indicates I am underestimating you, but I'm
really sorry you feel that way.  I am teaching you at a high level, and
expecting you to put in a lot of effort.  As for questions, I had hoped the
anonymity (pseduonymity) of twitch chat would make people less shy to ask
questions -- especially if you already feel you are not alone in
misunderstanding something.  In my other classes, I feel like I get a lot more
questions on twitch than I would in person.  Also, if you are uncomfortable
asking questions here in the wiki, just email me instead.

> It is not the students fault as u claim here.  Most all of us cannot understand you.  
> You are the problem it seems.  Your teaching style is UNCOOL.  Please change.

(wes): It is not my job to be cool or teach in a cool way (whatever that
means...).  It is my job to present you with challenging, topical material and
to guide you through your struggle to understand it.  I am doing my part to
the best of my ability, and I am trying to help you understand how to get the
most out of your time here.  Many people when frustrated look for something
external to blame.  You are obviously frustrated, and I am a natural target, I
guess.  But please, really think about what I'm saying and see if it does not
resonate with your own past experience:  Without exception, the most valuable
things I have learned came from my own struggles in working through problems.
I had terrific mentors, but ultimately all they can do is give guidance and
put good challenges in front of me.  The rest is up to the student.  (I
believe it is truly exceptional for a person to be able to understand deeply
just by hearing someone speak or watching a lecture, and probably indicates
they have one way or another already given a lot of thought to the subject.)

Once again, I invite you to address items (1) and (2) at the end of my
original post.  I have given you good resources to read and challenging,
instructive problems to think about.  Rather than vagaries and personal
attacks, please show me specifically what you have tried and exactly where you
got stuck, and I will be delighted to help you out.  I know it may seem
overwhelming, but take a deep breath and acknowledge right now that while it
won't be easy, the rewards of the struggle will be worth it (they were for me,
anyway).

> PS And lastly, Prof. Skeith, I have asked for a letter of confirmation of my withdrawal from you.  
> Please do not make me wait for it, i know you must be annoyed by me but it is my right
> to get that withdrawal confirmation from you ASAP.  
> Please dont make me wait--it will only make you look bad.  Thank you.

I will of course facilitate you.  I am perhaps disappointed that it has turned
out this way, but I'm not annoyed by anything.
